# exploring-the-digital-technology- 
In the first class of this course, as a class activity, the whole class was divided into small groups, and we were asked to observe the technology on our campus and make a list of it. After that, we talked about the instruments in class. 
In this course, we study computer software, how binary values are attached to our files, how execution and storage happen in our software devices, and how binary bits change from 8 to 64 bytes. 
We learn to convert binary to numbers and vice versa, both positive and negative numbers. 
We download the Linux in our systems and learn to code with the command prompt, in which we open the files without doing double click on our laptops.
After downloading the WSL, we learnt many codes like how to make a directory, file, and how to play along with the directory and files. How to open our app using codes, not with double clicking.
As part of the assignment, we did the presentations in small groups. In our group, we did a basic concept about computers in the book Computer Organization by Hamacher. In that, we discussed different computers and how the data instructions and memory work in different versions of computers, and we also talked about the number representation in computers and how the different algorithms work in  the computer. 
Other groups in the class talk about different topics and use different software for their presentations. One of the software is Miro, which is a digital collaborative  platform designed to facilitate remote and distributed team communication and project management. Another tool is Prezi AI, this platform is a visual storytelling  software alternative to traditional slide-based presentation formats. So from the different groups I learnT differnt tools and concepts more related to today's technology. 
As a class involvement, our instructor will provide many questions which are new to learn and exictes us to know more about that topic for example finding to do the email for thousands of members at a time with their respective names and I figure out how to do it using the excel sheet attch to the mail and send it. 
We are using the git hub account, but we don't know how to work in git, so we learnt about that only in this course. How to add to git and commit to it and using the gitk we can see when we use the git file did we make changes are not by that we can track when we did our file edited. 
Next, we had a guest lecture about "artificial neural networks (ANN) " what they are, how they work, and how they form by using logic gates and different mathematical operations like summation and differentiation. We compare the biological neuron to the artificial neuron, which is similar because we take the idea of an artificial neuron from the real neuron. 
We explore the new website called "playground.tensorflow.org", which is helpful to understand how the hidden layers and number of neurons in the hidden layer affect the output. There are many applications of ANN in technology, like we use this in Chatgpt, open AI sources, facial recognition, robotics, and automation.
There are 3 steps in ANN: forward propogation, Loss, and backward propagation. 
We use ANNs for complex and non-linear relations and for great for pattern recognition and from the base for deep learning. 
